today on Nico's kitchen it is the king
of kings it is the ultimate grilled
cheese we're making my croque monsieur
so firstly just over a low to medium
heat we're going to be making our
bechamel sauce for our croque monsieur
so first thing i'm gonna be putting in
is some butter now that it's melted down
i'm going to be adding in some just some
plain flour and we just want to mix the
flour around it will start to clump up
we're making a beautiful little roux
here it'll start to clump up as you can
see that's normal we just want to cook
out that flour for about a minute so
after about a minute we're now going to
be adding in some milk and just stir
that around and now we want to mix this
until we get all the lumps out and the
sauce starts to get thick so just add a
little bit more milk
just keep incorporating that give it
another stir and this is exactly what I
want a beautiful smooth bechamel sauce
so now that it's nice and smooth just a
couple of more additions to it just a
pinch of nutmeg don't go overboard with
it and season with salt and pepper and
we'll just give that a mix through now
some people add some cheese into their
bechamel sauce I don't I just leave it
like this but if you want to add some
Parmesan cheese something that's got
quite a sharp taste to it then go for it
so that is our bechamel sauce done I'm
gonna put this aside just for the
meantime and we'll get started on
building our croque monsieur for the
bread I'm using a linseed loaf I made
myself but you could use any hearty
style bread for this butter all sides
and place under the grill until just
golden brown on one side sprinkle grated
Gruyere cheese and then place a slice of
prosciutto or deli ham down
repeat this process with another layer
of cheese more prosciutto and then more
cheese place a slice of bread on the top
and spread with vegetable sauce then
sprinkle another layer of cheese and
place it in a hot oven at 220 degrees
Celsius for 6 minutes
then bring it out and spread Dijon
mustard over the top and then you
guessed it more cheese place back into
the oven for another three minutes
slice and serve immediately and now
let's get stuck into this bad boy
so I just love a croque monsieur they
are just perfect for sharing too and
there are so many different regional
variations of this french classic but
let me tell you i love it this way I
love the cheese the mustard the
vegetable the bread more cheese the
prosciutto more cheese the bread it is
just incredible it is really really
tasty very easy to do quick to put
together like I said perfect for sharing
you put a nice bowl of tomato soup down
or something
and it will just be absolutely amazing
please give this one a try you can do
different variations you can put some
deli ham I use prosciutto on this
occasion but you can use any ham that
you want to you can switch up the cheese
it's completely up to you you can put
the mustard inside the sandwich I like
to have it on the top because I like
that grilled mustard it really
intensifies the flavor when it's grilled
on the outside so many different
variations of this you'd even put a an
egg on the top and I becomes a croque
madame so there's again different
variations of this please in any case
give it a try because you just gotta
fall in love with it